
Suppose you have just installed a new version of Ubuntu on your computer.
To set up a working environment for basic Qt/C++ development (say, 
building the application for this data set) the following is a typical 
list of steps you might take (of course, if you don't have a brand-new 
system some of these may be unnecessary):

1)  Visit qt.io and install Qt and Qt Creator (you'll probably download an online installer first)
  -- make sure Qt Creator runs properly 

2)  There seems to be a recurring problem with Qt Creator and something called "xcb".  If Qt creator 
does not start, try running it from a command line (i.e., enter the Qt tools/bin 
directory and type ./qtcreator.sh, or for more info something like 
QT_DEBUG_PLUGINS=1 ./qtcreator.sh).  Fixing xcb problems might be as simple as 
installing a library which Qt Creator might need, libxcb-xinerama0 
(i.e. type sudo apt-get install libxcb-xinerama0).

3)  To avoid error messages in Qt Creator (some of which may not affect the 
data set but might cause confusion between unimportant and important 
messages) this is a good time to set up the "preferred" folder 
alongside the archive.  Unless you need to customize the 
.pri files, the quick way to do this is to run the script 
called "unzip-preferred.sh" in @/code/cpp/qmake-console/util.   

4)  If you don't have a C++ compiler, install "build-essential" (which includes a 
variety of tools needed for C/C++ development); i.e. type "sudo apt-get install 
build-essential" from a command line.

5)  Try opening the "build-first.pro" project in Qt Creator -- or skip ahead to 
installing some basic libraries, but trying to compile "build-first" will 
indicate which libraries you might need.  This assumes you're working 
from a new installation; otherwise you might well have these libraries already. 

6)  A typical setup will include installing zlib, via "sudo apt-get install libz-dev"

7)  A typical setup will include installing GL, via "sudo apt-get install libgl1-mesa-dev"

8)  Now "build-first" should compile and run.  Try that, then try other build varieties 
(if desired) which may have other dependencies.

